First, we'll bring in the point of
sale transaction data into Ateryx
using the imput data tool.
Next, let's add a select tool
to change the data type of
the invoice date field to a date.
Change the number of decimal places on
the gross margin and the sales field and
remove unnecessary fields to help
speed up the workflow run time.
We're only interested in
transactions from February 7,
2013 through May 28, 2014.
But the point of sale transaction
source data includes transactions from
additional dates.
We'll use a filter tool to
remove the unwanted data.
Additionally since we're
matching on region
we can take this opportunity the filter
out data with the region field is blank.
To assist with summarizing transaction
data to store in week level,
we'll create a week number field, a week
begin date field, a week end date field.
And also, a facial flag field that will
be used to identify transactions that
included a facial.
Let's use the formula tool
to create these four fields.
First, we'll create the field
with the week number.
The way this formula works is it
calculates the difference in days
between invoice date, and
the earliest date we are using,
which is February 7, 2013.
We then divide the number of days
by 7 to get the number of weeks.
If the number is not divisible by 7,
we'll get a remainder.
Therefore, we use the floor
function to isolate the quotient.
For example, if the invoice date
is 15 days from the start date,
this should be in week 3.
So, 15 divided by 7 equals 2.14.
We add 1 since the first week is week 1.
Taking the floor of 3.14 gives us
the answer 3 that we're looking for.
[BLANK_AUDIO]
Next, we can calculate the beginning
date of each week with a simple formula.
We subtract 1 from the week number,
and then multiply the result by 7,
to get the number of days each week
starts from the experiment start date.
We then add that number of days
to get the week start date.
Lastly, we calculate the week end date
of each week, with a similar formula.
We add 6 days to each week begin date.
We also want to flag a row of
data if the transaction line item
contains a facial.
We can use a simple
conditional equation for this.
If the skew category equals facial,
then 1, otherwise, null.
This expression will flag
a facial transaction with a 1.
Now we have the date data and
the subset of data that we can use to
generate all 3 data tables that we need.
Let's move on.